Derived from The Art of Thinking Clearly
Only few cognitive errors is selected due relatedness in data understanding

Survivorship Bias
Definition: Overestimate the chances of success. Only recognized the successful factors attribute but not the failing factors attribute. If you this, u will success is wrong
Example: 1. Warplane during world war
                 2.  Successful businessman, product, athletes key success			             
Solution: Digging the failing factors attribute also


Sunk cost fallacy:
Definition: the more someone invested, the greater the urge to continue
Example: When someone invest so much money, time and energy to a purpose, buat it doesn’t achieve any yet 
Solution: Need rational decision whether to continue or stop the resources invested. Forget about the cost 

Conformation Bias 
Definition: Tendency to interpret new information so it can suit our existing theories beliefs and convictions
Example: Whenever there is new idea contradixt with you, you will try to justify it
Solution: Try to compare it with moral, policy or laws as guide 

Authority Bias
Definition: Authority figures that exerting on inf luence on someone reasonong
Example: Captain pilot  to copilot communication boundaries
Solution: 




28. Base-Rate Neglect
Definition: A disregard to fundamental distribution levels. Most common errors in reasoning
Examples: A criminal goes to jail .  Need to guess which races he is? The base rate most goes to jail is majority race
Solution: Always look which is the base rate before sampling, picking, guessing

 34. Exponential growth
Definition: Nothing grows exponentially grow forever, It will reach a limit
Example: inflation is 5 percent a year, 70/5 =14 years, in 14 years 1 dollar will become 0.5 cent
Solution: use *magic no is 70, 70/x% = Z years

37: False Causality
Definition: Relate a cause that contribute  to something
Example: kids with many mouths tends to lawyer, leader
Solution: Correlation isn’t causation
What is presented turns out to be the effect 

38, Halo effect
Definition: believes one single aspect could drive the whole performance
Example: one CEOs in success in one industry can thrive in another industry 
Solution: Play in blind. Meritocracy. Data and factors Not pretty but educational 

55. Problem with Averages
Definition: A single outlier radically altered the picture, Often mask the underlying distribution 
Example: 5 random people, 4 with 50 k and 1 people with 1 mill income, Now the average is 210k
Solution: think twice, remove the outlier 

83. Salience Effect
Definition:  Try to make conclusion based on what is prominent, stand out attribute, cacthing eye
Example: Immigrant do it again
Solution: don’t neglect hidden discret factors
95: Feature Positive 
Definition: What exist means a lot more than what is missing
Example: People don’t ask what they don’t know absence on the list
Solution: Ask people, contemplate, put yourself in the shoes
